Python
Printing without starting a new line:
ex.) print("Hello World!", end=" ")
The -end=" " makes sure that whatever is printed next does not start
a new line, but instead goes right next to the thing
that was previously printed

Strings:
Strings are immutable, meaning the characters cannot be changed
If you have a string that is very long and needs more than one line,
use triple quotes, start writing the string on the same line as the 
quotes

Continue, Break:
Break completely stops the iteration or selection statement, ending
it and not executing the commands after it 
Continue skips the next steps that are written after the continue
statement, but continues the loop 

Random Generator 
import random 
random.randint(min,max) ---for integers
random.choice([choice 1, choice 2, choice 3])

Input
variable = input(Question)

main function:
def main():

f-strings:
Allows for you to add variables in the midddle of a string 
print(f"string {variable}")

importing files:
you can import different files into the code using: import fileName
You can also just import from fileName import function
This allows for the calling of the specific function from the file that was
imported despite not being within the code when calling the function, you must
write fileName.function() instead of just going straight to the function
You are also allowed to rename a imported file by writing: import fileName as 
....fn, now instead of typing fileName.function you can type fn.function

Accessing Files:
To open a file, you can either do: f = open("file.name") or: with open("file.name")
as f. To read it, use f.read(), and you could but in a parameter of how many 
characters you want. In order to seperate every word into words from the file, 
use the .split method. You have to loop through every line in the file and split it


ex.)

#Opens file
with open("demo.txt") as f:
#Loops through every line 
    for x in f:
#splits every word, splits at every white space
        words = x.split()
    
#This one loops through every word in the line and then does whatever it needs
to do in the for loop.
        for word in words:
            if word in frequency:
                frequency[word] += 1
            else:
                frequency[word] = 1 

PIP:
Sometimes you need to install some things in order to use a certain library, it usually
comes up as an error, where you don't have a certain file or command or smth and therefore,
in the linux command center, write install and whatever you need

ex.) missing 'command'
pip3 install command 
In the linux center, where you access all the files, create, edit and rename and everything

Json Files:
A type of file used to store information. However, what makes it different from the rest,
csv and txt files, is that it is structured and organized, but is still flexible to change.
Csv files are your standard excel, sheet, that have columns that can hold only one value,
making them not flexible, txt files, are just straight text and have no structure.
However, json files are usually a dictionary or a list, filled with information. 

When using a json file, always import json at the start. Then, to put a dictionary, list or
whatever into a json file: 
with open(fileName ,"w") as nickname:
#this opens the file, and "w" is for you to write in it 
#Then, dump it using json.dump()
variable(anyname) = json.dump(dictionary/list, nickname)
#This dumps the specific list or dictionary into the json file for when you need it 

To open a json file and update it:
import json
variable(any)  = json.load(open(fileName ,"r"))

This loads the file to read and then at the end, make sure to dump it back into the file 
to save

Pandas:

Series:
One dimensional array of any data, technically a column in a data table